# 🚀 The Book in 3 Sentences

1. Social media companies have turned smartphones into their Trojan horse to unknowingly get more of your time.

1. You can enjoy life more by trading your time from low-quality leisure into high-quality leisure. 

1. Engineer your technological devices to work for and with you, instead of against you.

# 🎨 Impressions

Cal Newport’s Digital Minimalism opens the mind to the reality of technology in the modern age and the agenda of large tech corporations.

## Who Should Read It?

- Everyone who uses a smartphone.

# ☘️ How the Book Changed Me

- I already implemented some of the concepts described by Cal Newport: 

	- I deleted social media apps of my phone for years.

	- I only access social media accounts on my computer/laptop.

	- Disabled notifications for the majority of my apps.

- I need to emphasize on building high-quality leisure activities, that don’t require technology use.

# ✍️ My Top 3 Quotes

- *Ch 6. A life well lived requires activities that serve no other purpose than the satisfaction that the activity itself generates.*

- *Ch 6. I’ve notice that once someone becomes more intentional about their leisure, they tend to find more of it in their life.*

- *Ch 7. You’re waging a David and Goliath battle against institutions that are both impossibly rich and intent on using this wealth to stop you from winning.*

# 📒 Summary + Notes

## Introduction

- *Digital Minimalism *requires you to** step away from optional online activities **for 30 days.
This includes:

	- Scrolling on social media:

		- Facebook

		- Instagram

		- Reddit

		- Twitter/X

		- YouTube

	- Binge-watching videos

		- Disney+

		- Hulu

		- Netflix

		- YouTube

## Chapter 2 - Digital Minimalism

- Thoreau’s new economics, however, demands that you balance this profit against the costs measured in terms of “your life.” How much of your time and attention, he would ask, must be sacrificed to earn the small profit of occasional connections and new ideas that is earned by cultivating a significant present on Twitter?

- At the core of the Amish philosophy regarding technology is the following trade-off:

	- The Amish prioritize the benefits generated by acting intentionally about technology over the benefits lost from the technologies they decide not to use.

## Chapter 3 - The Digital Declutter

**The Digital Declutter Process:**

1. Put aside 30-day period during which you will take a break from optional technologies in your life.

	1. Any technology is optional unless temporarily removing it would harm or significantly disrupt the daily operation of your personal or professional life.

1. During the 30-day break, explore the rediscover activities and behaviors that you find satisfying and meaningful. 

	1. First two weeks will be hard to fight against your urges to check technologies you’re not allowed to check.

	1. This period should be one of hard activity and experimentation. **You are replacing this wasted time with high-quality activities.**

1. At the end of the break, reintroduce optional technologies into your life, starting from a blank slate. For each technology you reintroduce, determine what value it serve in your life and how specifically you will use it so as to maximize this value.

	1. To allow the tech back in your life, it must:

		1. Serve something you deeply value (offer some benefit is not enough)

		1. Be the best way to serve its value (if not, replace it with something better).

		1. How a role in your life that is constrained that tells you when and how you use it.

	1. Here are these points turned into questions to ask:

		1. Does it directly support something that I deeply value?

		1. Is this technology the best way to support this value?

		1. How am I going to use this technology going forward to maximize its value and minimize its harms?

- This helps you reset your digital life that you may have accumulated over time.

- It lets you support your values instead of subverting them.

🚩 A mistake people make was not planning what to replace these technologies with during the declutter period - leading to anxiety and boredom.

## Chapter 4 - Spend Time Alone

- The details of this practice are simple:

	- On a regular basis, go for long walks, preferably somewhere scenic, Take these walks alone, which means no just by yourself, but also, if possible, without your phone.

- Writing a letter toy ourself is an excellent mechanism to generating exactly this type of solitude.

## Chapter 5 - Don’t Click “Like”

- Make tools are engineered to hijack our social instincts to create an addictive allure.

- Conversation is the only form of interaction that counts toward maintaining a relationship. As long as it involves nuanced analog cues, such as the tone of your voice or facial expressions.

## Chapter 6 - Reclaim Leisure

- A life well lived requires activities that serve no other purpose than the satisfaction that the activity itself generates.

- If you begin to declutter the low-value distractions before you filled in the void from them, the process will be unpleasant at best and a massive failure at worse.

- The most successful digital minimalists start their conversion by renovating what they do with their free time - creating high-quality leisure before culling the worst of their digital habits.

🏌🏽‍♂️ A good leisure pursuit, in Bennet’s calculus, should require more “mental strain” to enjoy.

- Craft is a good source of high-quality leisure.

- The most successful social leisure activities share two traits:

	- Spends time with other people in person.

	- Provides some sort of structure for the social interaction, include rules to follow, insider terminology, and often a shared goal.

- The higher-quality pursuits you add into your life, the more naturally your restrictions will aggressively be.

📱 Most users can receive the most of the value that social media provide their life in as little as 20-40 minutes of use per week.

- If you can’t find such gatherings you enjoy, then created them. That’s what Benjamin Franklin did when he moved to Philadelphia, and became one of the most connected, engaged and respected citizens.

- Create a seasonal plan that has two items: objectives and habits you intend to honor in the upcoming session:

	1. Objectives describe specific goals you hope to accomplish, with accompanying strategies for how you will accomplish them.

	1. The habits describe behavior rules you hope to stick with throughout the season.

## Chapter 7 - Join the Attention Resistance

- If your job or personal brand requires the use of social media, it’s important to use these activities with a sense of zero-sum antagonism. 

- Digital minimalism is much more than a set of rules, it’s about cultivating a life worth living in our current age of alluring devices.

- Digital Minimalism does not reject the innovations of the internet age, but instead rejects the way so many people current use these tools.

